For anyone to become
a servant of Jehovah,
they must have God’s Word
deeply implanted in their heart.
Now, why is it so necessary
for us to understand that,
and what skills will help us
to reach the heart of our students?
Jesus gave an indication
in his illustration of the sower.
It’s found in Matthew chapter 13,
and we’ll read verse 19.
Matthew 13:19, it says:
“Where anyone hears the word
of the Kingdom
“but does not get the sense of it,
the wicked one comes
and snatches away
what has been sown in his heart.”
So “the word of the Kingdom”
is likened to seeds,
and the soil,
to the figurative heart.
Now, the figurative heart
represents what a person is inside.
It involves his feelings, his affections,
his desires, his motives,
also what he thinks about
and how those thoughts
affect decisions in his life.
If you look back at verse 19,
Jesus said that the seed, in this case,
didn’t grow because the individual
didn’t “get the sense” of the good news.
Now, Jesus has given
all of us this assignment
to “make disciples of people
of all the nations, baptizing them.”
So our teaching needs to help our students
“get the sense” of the good news,
and that’s going to move them to action.
Proverbs 3:1
highlights the importance
of this type of teaching to us.
It’s Proverbs 3:1.
It says: “My son,
do not forget my teaching,
and may your heart observe
my commandments.”
So obedience to God
must come from the heart,
as it indicates.
So brothers and sisters,
it’s our responsibility
to learn how to reach
the heart of our students
so that their thinking, their feelings,
their reasonings will move them
to be obedient to Jehovah God.
As you watch the following dramatization,
notice how Neeta strives
to reach the heart of her Bible student.
Did you think any more
about what we talked about on Monday?
I did.
But why would Jehovah
make a rule like that
—no sex unless you’re married?
It’s totally archaic.
It might seem odd,
but what quality do you
most appreciate about Jehovah?
His love.
Me too.
So if he truly loves us,
look at what he tells us at Isaiah 48:17:
“I, Jehovah, am your God,
“[your God, Jade]
“the One teaching you
“to benefit yourself,
the One guiding you
in the way you should walk.”
But I don’t get it.
It just— It just doesn’t make sense.
Question: Does a little child
always understand why Mum and Dad
warn them not to do certain things?
Probably not.
So why all the rules and warnings?
Well, they love them, don’t they?
And so if Jehovah loves you . . . ?
It often takes time to appreciate
why Jehovah asks certain things of us.
But if we really love him,
we’ll have faith that what he asks
is for the best.
The real question is, Do you trust him?
I want to;
I really do.
This is a good example
of how a Bible study conductor
reaches the heart of a student.
Neeta was calmly helping Jade
to link what she was learning in her study
to her relationship with Jehovah God.
It was not an intellectual exercise,
so to speak,
helping her to gain more knowledge
about a certain subject.
No, it’s really helping the student
to connect the dots, so to speak,
to see how the material applies to decisions
that they are making in their life.
Throughout the Bible study,
we want
to constantly direct attention
to Jehovah God.
And if we’re talking too much as the teacher,
it’s going to be hard to accomplish that.
Your effective use of questions
can help them connect
the Bible knowledge that they are receiving
to the qualities of Jehovah God
—that’s going to make them love him—
qualities such as his love,
his goodness, and his righteousness.
Here’s an example of a question
that might be used:
Why do you think Jehovah
would forbid . . . (a certain action)?
See, that kind of question
is helping your student
begin to understand
the thinking of Jehovah God on matters.
Did you notice it was
not a yes-or-no question?
The question actually started with “why.”
And now that forces the student
to go to another level
of their thought process
to explain the reason Jehovah
forbids certain actions,
and that’s a very good method
of reaching the heart of a student.
Here’s an example of another question:
How does this show you
that Jehovah is a loving Father?
There again, it’s not a yes-or-no question.
This time it started with “how,”
and that now requires
the student to identify the evidence
that proves
that Jehovah is a loving Father.
Did you notice in the video
that Neeta’s questions
were touching Jade’s heart?
She was skilled at her choice of questions
but also in the tone of voice she used
when she was asking those questions.
She was not hurried
or impatient to get an answer.
She quietly waited for Jade
to meditate on the question.
Her method of teaching
demonstrated a Bible principle
that would be helpful for us to review,
and it’s found in Proverbs
chapter 20, and verse 5.
Proverbs 20:5,
it says: “The thoughts of a man’s heart
are like deep waters,
but the discerning man draws them out.”
And so the thoughts of the student
are not always easily discernible.
Yes, it really takes a skilled teacher
to draw those out “like deep waters,”
the verse indicates.
Through tactful questions, then,
you can help your student
to examine how they feel
about what they are learning.
Some simple questions will help you do that.
For instance, How do you feel about . . . ?
or What convinces you that . . . ?
or How would you react if . . . ?
See, those are excellent questions
to help to draw up the inner feelings
of your student.
Now, there’s a caution in this process
because generally it’s going to take time
to gain the trust of the student
so they’ll be comfortable
expressing their feelings.
As a student’s love for Jehovah increases,
they’ll be motivated
to make changes in their lives
to please Jehovah God.
First John 5:3 says:
“This is what the love of God means,
that we observe his commandments.”
So obedience to his commandments, then,
is linked to love for him and,
in addition, love for fellow humans.
Love for the Bible teachings
that they’re learning is going to help
them to make any needed adjustments
to their thinking.
Rather than shame your student,
help them to reason
on the benefits
of correcting wrong viewpoints.
Do you recall how Neeta
handled the situation with Jade?
When Jade said Jehovah’s law
against having sex before marriage
was “totally archaic,”
instead of scolding her,
Neeta skillfully used an example of a child
not understanding the rules
and regulations of the parent.
And you could see as she was discussing that,
Jade started to make the connection
that Jehovah’s law
is really an expression of his love for her,
just as a parent loves their child.
Once a student develops
this relationship with Jehovah God
and desires to make Jehovah’s heart happy,
that’s going to be the strongest motive
for the individual to make
whatever changes are necessary
in their life to please Jehovah.
While it is a privilege to be involved
in the work of making disciples,
Jehovah wants us to also enjoy this work.
That was certainly the case
with the apostle Paul.
Open your Bible to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2,
verses 19 and 20.
Now let’s see how he felt
about God’s message
changing the lives
of those who he preached to.
It’s 1 Thessalonians 2:19, 20:
“For what is our hope
or joy or crown of exaltation
“before our Lord Jesus at his presence?
“Is it not in fact you?
You certainly are our glory and joy.”
Few joys in life can compare
with helping someone come
to an accurate knowledge of the truth
and watching them progress
to dedication and baptism.
We are so thankful to receive
Jehovah’s holy spirit
and his guidance in helping us
in this disciple-making work.
But we too must do our part
in diligently improving in our skills.
As this six-part symposium has highlighted,
as we do our part
improving our teaching skills
in all aspects of our ministry,
we will find greater joy
as “God’s fellow workers.”